README.rst, before:

=====
PyPIM
=====
|pyansys| |PyPI| |codecov| |CI| |MIT| |black|

.. |pyansys| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Py-Ansys-ffc107.svg?logo=data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABAAAAAQCAIAAACQkWg2AAABDklEQVQ4jWNgoDfg5mD8vE7q/3bpVyskbW0sMRUwofHD7Dh5OBkZGBgW7/3W2tZpa2tLQEOyOzeEsfumlK2tbVpaGj4N6jIs1lpsDAwMJ278sveMY2BgCA0NFRISwqkhyQ1q/Nyd3zg4OBgYGNjZ2ePi4rB5loGBhZnhxTLJ/9ulv26Q4uVk1NXV/f///////69du4Zdg78lx//t0v+3S88rFISInD59GqIH2esIJ8G9O2/XVwhjzpw5EAam1xkkBJn/bJX+v1365hxxuCAfH9+3b9/+////48cPuNehNsS7cDEzMTAwMMzb+Q2u4dOnT2vWrMHu9ZtzxP9vl/69RVpCkBlZ3N7enoDXBwEAAA+YYitOilMVAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC
   :target: https://docs.pyansys.com/
   :alt: PyAnsys

.. |PyPI| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ansys-platform-instancemanagement
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/ansys-platform-instancemanagement/
    :alt: PyPI

.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/pyansys/pypim/branch/main/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pyansys/pypim
   :alt: Code Coverage

.. |CI| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/pyansys/pypim/GitHub%20CI/main
    :target: https://github.com/pyansys/pypim/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml
    :alt: GitHub Workflow Status (branch)

.. |MIT| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
   :alt: MIT License

.. |black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat
  :target: https://github.com/psf/black
  :alt: black
    
`PyPIM <https://pypim.docs.pyansys.com>`_ exposes a Pythonic interface to
communicate with the Product Instance Management (PIM) API.

What is the PIM API?
============================================

The PIM API is a gRPC API enabling library and application developers to
start a product in a remote environment and communicate with its API.

The PIM API is intended to be as simple as possible to be adaptable in a variety of
network and software infrastructures. Using this API does not require any
knowledge of its infrastructure. You need only know which product to
start and which API the product exposes. The PIM API itself exposes very few
features and assumes that all the configuration is set on a server.

The PIM API is not intended to manage stateless services, to be a job management
system, or a fully featured service orchestration API. Its purpose is to expose
a minimum feature set for managing service-oriented applications.

Getting Started
===============
To use PyPIM, you must have access to the PIM API.

.. note::
    The PIM API is a work in progress. Even though the API definition and the
    PyPIM client are published, the service itself is not publicly exposed.

PyPIM itself is pure Python and relies on `gRPC`_.

.. _`gRPC`: https://grpc.io/

Installation
------------
The ``ansys-platform-instancemanagement`` package is tested for Python 3.7 through
Python 3.10 on Windows and Linux.

.. code-block::

    pip install ansys-platform-instancemanagement

Configuration
-------------

By default, PyPIM is configured externally instead of via code. Anywhere in the
local storage, create a configuration file with the following format:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "version": 1,
        "pim": {
            "uri": "dns:pim.svc.com:80",
            "headers": {
                "metadata-info": "value"
            },
            "tls": false
        }
    }

Then, define the environment variable
``ANSYS_PLATFORM_INSTANCEMANAGEMENT_CONFIG`` to point to this file.

Usage
-----
PyPIM is a single module called ``ansys.platform.instancemanagement``, shortened
to ``pypim``.

To start MAPDL and communicate with PyPIM:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import ansys.platform.instancemanagement as pypim
    from ansys.mapdl.core import Mapdl
    
    if pypim.is_configured():
        with pypim.connect() as pim:
            with pim.create_instance(product_name="mapdl", product_version="221") as instance:
                instance.wait_for_ready()
                channel = instance.build_grpc_channel(options=[("grpc.max_receive_message_length", 8*1024**2)])
                mapdl = Mapdl(channel=channel)
                mapdl.prep7()
                ...

You can also use PyPIM without the ``with`` statement:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import ansys.platform.instancemanagement as pypim
    from ansys.mapdl.core import Mapdl
    
    if pypim.is_configured():
        pim = pypim.connect()
        instance = pim.create_instance(product_name="mapdl", product_version="221")
        channel = instance.build_grpc_channel(options=[("grpc.max_receive_message_length", 8*1024**2)])
        mapdl = Mapdl(channel=channel)
        mapdl.prep7()
        ...
        instance.delete()
        pim.close()

Integration
-----------

PyPIM can be integrated in PyAnsys libraries to transparently switch to a remote
instance in a suitable environment. This process is described in the
integration topic.

For example, starting MAPDL with PyPIM is as simple as:

.. code-block:: python

    from ansys.mapdl.core import launch_mapdl    
    mapdl = launch_mapdl()

Commit message:

Doc/fix link and edit (#78)
* Fix broken links--which led to a read-through and minor edits.

* Fix broken link and make general edits

* Fix sentence where I initially misunderstood what I read

* Apply suggestions from code review

Incorporate feedback

Co-authored-by: Pierre Lulé <pierre.lule@ansys.com>

* Incorporate Pierre's sentence revision

* Fix heading to use sentence case

---------

Co-authored-by: Pierre Lulé <pierre.lule@ansys.com>

README.rst, after:

=====
PyPIM
=====
|pyansys| |PyPI| |codecov| |CI| |MIT| |black|

.. |pyansys| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Py-Ansys-ffc107.svg?logo=data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABAAAAAQCAIAAACQkWg2AAABDklEQVQ4jWNgoDfg5mD8vE7q/3bpVyskbW0sMRUwofHD7Dh5OBkZGBgW7/3W2tZpa2tLQEOyOzeEsfumlK2tbVpaGj4N6jIs1lpsDAwMJ278sveMY2BgCA0NFRISwqkhyQ1q/Nyd3zg4OBgYGNjZ2ePi4rB5loGBhZnhxTLJ/9ulv26Q4uVk1NXV/f///////69du4Zdg78lx//t0v+3S88rFISInD59GqIH2esIJ8G9O2/XVwhjzpw5EAam1xkkBJn/bJX+v1365hxxuCAfH9+3b9/+////48cPuNehNsS7cDEzMTAwMMzb+Q2u4dOnT2vWrMHu9ZtzxP9vl/69RVpCkBlZ3N7enoDXBwEAAA+YYitOilMVAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC
   :target: https://docs.pyansys.com/
   :alt: PyAnsys

.. |PyPI| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ansys-platform-instancemanagement
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/ansys-platform-instancemanagement/
    :alt: PyPI

.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/pyansys/pypim/branch/main/graph/badge.svg
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pyansys/pypim
   :alt: Code Coverage

.. |CI| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/pyansys/pypim/GitHub%20CI/main
    :target: https://github.com/pyansys/pypim/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml
    :alt: GitHub Workflow Status (branch)

.. |MIT| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
   :alt: MIT License

.. |black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat
  :target: https://github.com/psf/black
  :alt: black
    
`PyPIM <https://pypim.docs.pyansys.com>`_ exposes a Pythonic interface to
communicate with the Product Instance Management (PIM) API.

What is the PIM API?
============================================

The PIM API is a gRPC API, enabling both library and app developers to
start a product in a remote environment and communicate with its API.

The PIM API is intended to be as simple as possible to be adaptable in a variety of
network and software infrastructures. Using this API does not require any
knowledge of its infrastructure. You need only know which product to
start and which API the product exposes. The PIM API itself exposes very few
features and assumes that all the configuration is set on a server.

The PIM API is not intended to manage stateless services, to be a job management
system, or a fully featured service orchestration API. Its purpose is to expose
a minimum feature set for managing service-oriented apps.

Getting started
===============
To use PyPIM, you must have access to the PIM API.

.. note::
   The PIM API is a work in progress. Even though the API definition and the
   PyPIM client are published, the service itself is not publicly exposed.

PyPIM itself is pure Python and relies on `gRPC`_.

.. _`gRPC`: https://grpc.io/

Installation
------------
The ``ansys-platform-instancemanagement`` package is tested for Python 3.7 through
Python 3.10 on Windows and Linux.

.. code-block::

    pip install ansys-platform-instancemanagement

Configuration
-------------

By default, PyPIM is configured externally instead of via code. Anywhere in the
local storage, create a configuration file with this format:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "version": 1,
        "pim": {
            "uri": "dns:pim.svc.com:80",
            "headers": {
                "metadata-info": "value"
            },
            "tls": false
        }
    }

Then, define the environment variable
``ANSYS_PLATFORM_INSTANCEMANAGEMENT_CONFIG`` to point to this configuration file.

Usage
-----
PyPIM is a single module called ``ansys.platform.instancemanagement``, shortened
to ``pypim``.

To start MAPDL and communicate with PyPIM, use this code:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import ansys.platform.instancemanagement as pypim
    from ansys.mapdl.core import Mapdl
    
    if pypim.is_configured():
        with pypim.connect() as pim:
            with pim.create_instance(product_name="mapdl", product_version="221") as instance:
                instance.wait_for_ready()
                channel = instance.build_grpc_channel(options=[("grpc.max_receive_message_length", 8*1024**2)])
                mapdl = Mapdl(channel=channel)
                mapdl.prep7()
                ...

You can also use PyPIM without the ``with`` statement, as shown in this code:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import ansys.platform.instancemanagement as pypim
    from ansys.mapdl.core import Mapdl
    
    if pypim.is_configured():
        pim = pypim.connect()
        instance = pim.create_instance(product_name="mapdl", product_version="221")
        channel = instance.build_grpc_channel(options=[("grpc.max_receive_message_length", 8*1024**2)])
        mapdl = Mapdl(channel=channel)
        mapdl.prep7()
        ...
        instance.delete()
        pim.close()

Integration
-----------

PyPIM can be integrated in PyAnsys libraries to transparently switch to a remote
instance in a suitable environment. This process is described in `Integration <https://pypim.docs.pyansys.com/integration.html>`_
in the PyPIM documentation.

For example, starting MAPDL with PyPIM is as simple as using this code:

.. code-block:: python

    from ansys.mapdl.core import launch_mapdl    
    mapdl = launch_mapdl()
